This is Sportstar's match blog of the 2020-21 UEFA Champions League quarterfinal fixture between Bayern Munich and PSG at the Allianz Arena. That's it for today. Thanks for tuning in! Meanwhile, goals from Mason Mount and Ben Chilwell led Chelsea to a 2-0 victory against Porto at the Estadio Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan in Sevilla during the other quarterfinal first leg game tonight. ALSO READ | Champions League: Mount, Chilwell give Chelsea advantage over Porto Kylian Mbappe's double and a goal from skipper Marquinhos guided Paris Saint-Germain to a 3-2 away win over Bayern Munich in a 2020-21 UEFA Champions League last-eight first leg encounter. REPORT | Champions League: Mbappe brace helps PSG to thrilling win at Bayern MATCH HIGHLIGHTS: AND IT'S FULL-TIME! FINAL SCORE: BAYERN MUNICH 2 - 3 PSG!!! 90+2' SUBSTITUTION! Neymar makes way for his Paris Saint-Germain teammate Rafinha on the field. Bayern Munich going all-out attack in desperation. 90' Just two minutes of stoppage time added on at the end of the second half! Meanwhile, another Joshua Kimmich corner, another good clearance from the PSG defence. 88' YELLOW CARD! PSG full-back Colin Dagba unintentionally handles the ball inside the box. The Bayern players claim a penlty. But the referee says nothing doing. Eric Choupo-Moting argues with him and ends up receiving a card. 86' VERY CLOSE! Bayern Munich's David Alaba receives a pass at the edge of the box, turns and takes a shot. The ball misses the target by a whishker. PSG keeper Keylor Navas displays a sigh of relief. 83' CROSS! Bayern Munich has completely dominated the possession, passing and attacking stats tonight. Benjamin Pavard attempts to find Choupo-Moting with a cross from the right wing. But he puts too much power on the ball as it goes out for a PSG throw-in. 80' FREE-KICK FOR PSG! Bayern defender David Alaba concedes a set-piece with a silly foul. Neymar takes it for Paris Saint-Germain. He tries to curl the ball towards the top corner. However, Manuel Neuer makes a straightforward save. 77' OFFSIDE! Bayern Munich striker Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting was a little too eager to get to a pass from midfield here. The linesman raises his flag for offside and the referee awards Paris Saint-Germain a free-kick. 74' BOOKINGS! The referee has handed a couple of yellow cards in quick succession here. Both to Bayern Munich players. Joshua Kimmich was the first offender for a late challenge. Jerome Boateng, who came up with a similar tackle, is booked next. 71' SUBSTITUTION! Angel Di Maria is favouring his hamstring now. PSG boss Mauricio Pochettino brings him back into the dugout and introduces some fresh legs in the form of Moise Kean. 68' GOOOAAAALLLLL!!! KYLIAN MBAPPE SCORES!!!!! PSG 3 - 2 BAYERN MUNICH!!!!!!! Mbappe runs onto a pass from Angel Di Maria after great counter-attacking play and hits a fine first-time shot from close range. The ball goes right through the legs of Boateng and finds the back of the net. Bayern keeper Neuer didn't move an inch as the ball traveled past him with insane speed. 66' INJURY! The latest goalscorer Thomas Muller is down on the ground. The Bayern physios tend to him on the sidelines. Muller is fine to continue much to the delight of head coach Hansi Flick. 63' YELLOW CARD! This is the second booking on the night. Bayern Munich full-back Lucas Hernandez received a card in the first half. This time it is PSG forward Julian Draxler, who came up with a silly challenge and went into the referee's book. 60' GOOOOAAAAAALLLLLLL!!!!!! THOMAS MULLER SCORES!!! BAYERN MUNICH 2 - 2 PSG!!!!! This was a Joshua Kimmich free-kick. A perfectly executed one. Muller lost his marker with ease and headed the ball into goal. Keylor Navas had no chance to make a save here. 57' SHOT! Bayern Munich winger Kingsley Coman gets to a pass from midfield. He takes two touches and sets himself up to take a shot on target. But Navas produces one more save. 54' GOOD DEFENDING! David Alaba receives a pass from his Bayern teammate Leroy Sane and moves forward on the right flank. He sends a cross towards Eric Choupo-Moting, who is overpowered by PSG's Danilo Pereira who heads the ball away from danger. 51' CORNER FOR BAYERN! Thomas Muller wins a set-piece for Bayern Munich after rushing past a few opposition players. Joshua Kimmich delivers the cross into the middle. However, the PSG defence is alert as the ball is cleared away. 48' SUBSTITUTION! And it is a change straightaway from PSG manager Mauricio Pochettino. He decides to bring on Mitchel Bakker to replace Abdou Diallo on the field for the final 45 minutes. THE SECOND HALF IS UNDERWAY! Goals from Kylian Mbappe and Marquinhos give Paris Saint-Germain a 2-1 lead over host Bayern Munich. Neymar has produced two brilliant assists. Eric Choupo-Moting scored against his former team to pull one back for the Bavarians, who have dominated possession so far. Forty-five minutes to go. Stay tuned! In the other game on the night, a Mason Mount goal, off a Jorginho assist, gave Chelsea FC a 1-0 lead against home side FC Porto at the end of the opening 45 minutes. You can follow that quarterfinal first leg encounter live here -----> Porto vs Chelsea live commentary AND IT'S HALF TIME! SCORE: BAYERN MUNICH 1 - 2 PSG!!! 45+2' SAVE! Thomas Muller does well to get into a good position inside the box. But the Bayern attacker is unable to find the back of the net with his header as PSG keeper Keylor Navas pushes the ball away. 45' Two minutes of stoppage time to be added on at the end of the first half! Kimmich takes yet another corner for Bayern but Abdou Diallo averts the danger with a clearance for PSG. 42' ANOTHER SUBSTITUTION! Hansi Flick has made two tactical changes to his lineup in the first half. How often do we see a coach doing that? This time it's a like-for-like substitution as Jerome Boateng replces Niklas Sule on the field. 40' Bayern Munich is completely dominating possession here. A string of short passes from the Bavarians. David Alaba receives the ball and tries to send a through pass into the box. However, stand-in PSG captain Presnel Kimpembe intercepts it. 37' GOOOOOAAAAAALLLLL!!!!!!! ERIC CHOUPO-MOTING SCORES!!! BAYERN MUNICH 1 - 2 PSG!!!!! Benjamin Pavard comes up with a delightful cross from the right. Choupo-Moting loses his marker and connects with a header at the centre of the box. The ball goes past a diving Keylor Navas into goal. 33' CHANGE! This time it is Bayern Munich head coach Hansi Flick. He decides to infuse some pace in midfield as Leon Goretzka makes way for Alphonso Davies in the middle. 31' SUBSTITUTION! The goalscorer Marquinhos is injured and it doesn't look good. Paris Saint-Germain manager Mauricio Pochettino decides to bring on Ander Herrera to replace his injured skipper on the field. 28' GOOOOOAAAALLLLLL!!!!!!!!! MARQUINHOS SCORES!!! PSG 2 - 0 BAYERN MUNICH!!!!! The ayern back line just messed up an offside trap here. The ball was cleared away following a PSG set-piece. Neymar received it in midfield. He attempted to send a long ball into the box. Marquinhos rushed forward to meet Neymar's cross and found the back of the net with a simple finish. 26' SHOT! Bayern Munich forward Eric Choupo Moting receives the ball. He takes a step to his right and lets one fly. His shot misses the target by quite a bit. 24' CHANCE FOR BAYERN! Leroy Sane evades a challenge from an opposition player and sends a pass towards his teammate Kingsley Coman, who sprints forward with it but is unable to cross the ball into the middle. 21' BACK-TO-BACK CORNERS FOR BAYERN! Benjamin Pavard's stunning shot was saved by Navas once again. The corner which followed was cleared away by the PSG defence. Bayern Munich won another corner, which didn't make any difference either. 18' WHAT A SAVE! Idrissa Gueye conceded a free-kick. Kimmich took it for Bayern. Leon Goretzka rose the highest inside the box and diverted the ball towards the target with a sharp header. However, PSG goalkeeper Keylor Navas went full stretch to push the ball away. 15' FREE-KICK FOR PSG! Bayern midfielder Leon Goretzka comes up with a clumsy challenge. Neymar is on set-piece duty now. He tries to send in a cross but Neuer comes off his line to punch the ball away. 12' OFFSIDE! GOAL DISALLOWED!!! Neymar sent a through ball towards Mbappe and the Paris Saint-Germain forward sprinted forward with it. He dribbled past a couple of players and teed up Julian Draxler inside the box. Draxler scored but the linesman immediately raised his flag. 9' SHOT! Leon Goretzka comes up with an excellent first touch to control a pass from a teammate. He looks on either side and decides to take a shot on target himself. But his shot is blocked. 6' FREE-KICK FOR BAYERN! PSG midfielder Idrissa Gueye commits handball. The referee awards FCB a set-piece. Joshua Kimmich takes it from the edge of the box. However, the ball hits the wall and goes out of play. 3' GOOOOOAAAAALLLLL!!!!!!! KYLIAN MBAPPE SCORES!!! PSG 1 - 0 BAYERN MUNICH!!!!! Bayern won a corner at the other end. Eric Choupo-Moting tested Paris Saint-Germain goalkeeper Keylor Navas. As play restarted, PSG quickly got going and Neymar received a pass from midfield. He moved forward and set up Mbappe at close range. Mbappe fired a shot on target and the ball slipped through Bayern custodian Manuel Neuer. 12:30 PM IST - AND THE MATCH BEGINS! 12:00 PM IST - In case you missed it, FC Porto is hosting Chelsea FC in another 2020-21 UEFA Champions League quarterfinal first leg encounter tonight. You can follow that last-eight match live here -----> Porto vs Chelsea live commentary 11:30 PM IST - The team lineups are out! Bayern Munich: Neuer, Pavard, Alaba, Sule, Lucas Hernandez, Kimmich, Thomas Muller, Goretzka, Coman, Sane, Choupo-Moting. COACH - Hansi Flick. Paris Saint-Germain: Navas, Colin Dagba, Danilo, Diallo, Di Maria, Julian Draxler, Gueye, Kimpembe, Marquinhos, Mbappe, Neymar. COACH - Mauricio Pochettino. 11:00 PM IST - Injury news: Bayern Munich will be without the likes of Serge Gnabry (COVID-19), Douglas Costa, Robert Lewandowski and Corentin Tolisso who are out with injury. On the other hand, Paris Saint-Germain will miss the services of the injured Juan Bernat and Mauro Icardi, Marco Verratti (coronavirus) and Leandro Paredes (accumulation of yellow cards). FCB XI vs RBL: Manuel Neuer (G)(C), Benjamin Pavard, Niklas Sule, David Alaba, Lucas Hernandez, Leon Goretzka, Joshua Kimmich, Kingsley Coman, Thomas Muller, Leroy Sane, Eric Choupo-Moting. Table-topper FC Bayern Munich had successfully overcome second-placed RB Leipzig 1-0 away in the 2020-21 Bundesliga this weekend. PSG XI vs LOSC: Keylor Navas (G), Thilo Kehrer, Presnel Kimpembe, Marquinhos (C), Abdou Diallo, Idrissa Gueye, Leandro Paredes, Kylian Mbappe, Neymar, Angel di Maria, Moise Kean. Defending champion Paris Saint-Germain had suffered a 0-1 defeat at the hands of league leader Lille OSC in its most recent 2020-21 Ligue 1 clash. Where can you watch the game live? You can watch all the UEFA Champions League games on the Sony Pictures Sports Network in India, while SONY LIV will provide live streaming online in the country.