On April 5, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s bite to ANI on COVID vaccination led to a Twitter storm after many pointed out that he used abusive language on camera. ⚠WARNING: Fake Yogi’s non-sanskari language ahead.  pic.twitter.com/JHHJBhjQrY — AAP (@AamAadmiParty)  April 5, 2021 The UP CM was criticised by opposition parties and journalists for lashing out at a reporter. इस वीडियो को देखकर शायद आप शर्मिंदा हो जाये:- अजय बिष्ट, मीडिया का कितना सम्मान करता है  पूरे 8 सेकेंड्स में जानिए हालात-ए-पत्रकारिता..👇  pic.twitter.com/UYQXHcOyxv — Srinivas B V (@srinivasiyc)  April 5, 2021 All the jokes and memes aside, we now live in times where the Chief Minister of a state abuses a media person on camera and ENBA awardees are all silent. What good is an award if it comes at the cost of your self respect? — Rohini Singh (@rohini_sgh)  April 5, 2021 ANI retracts video, propaganda websites come to Adityanath’s rescue News agency ANI was quick to retract its live broadcast and share another bite where Adityanath cannot be heard blurting out a swear word. Video byte of UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Covid vaccination (Editors note: Earlier issued Live Sound byte is retracted)  pic.twitter.com/td9qQHSnrX — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP)  April 5, 2021 Alt News contacted ANI editor-in-chief Smita Prakash for comment since the agency is yet to issue a statement. “I am not interested in speaking with you,” she said before hanging up. ANI UP bureau chief Kamna Hajela disconnected the call when asked about the video. UP CMO stated that the last three seconds of the viral clip are edited and a case will be registered against those sharing the viral video to tarnish the chief minister’s image. सीएम योगी आदित्यनाथ के सोशल मीडिया पर हो रहे वायरल वीडियो को सरकार ने फेक बताया है। मुख्यमंत्री कार्यालय ने इसे एडिटेड वीडियो बताया ही। सीएम ऑफिस ने बताया कि वीडियो के आखिरी के 3 सेकेंड का फ्रेम एडिट किया गया। मुख्यमंत्री की छवि धूमिल करने के आरोप में मुकदमा दर्ज कराया जाएगा। — Anil Tiwari (@Interceptors)  April 5, 2021 Journalist Deepak Chaurasia came to Adityanath’s rescue and propaganda websites  OpIndia  and  Breaking Tube  published ‘fact-check’ articles. सीएम योगी के आपत्तिजनक शब्द बोलने का मामला। एडिटेड निकला सीएम योगी का Video, वीडियो के आखिरी 3 सेकेंड में जोड़े गए आपत्तिजनक शब्द।  @shalabhmani — Deepak Chaurasia (@DChaurasia2312)  April 5, 2021 The video has not been edited While ANI retracted the video, it is still available on broadcasts by other channels. Below is an ABP Ganga broadcast where Yogi Adityanath’s retracted bite can be heard  six minutes  onward. The redacted clip was also aired by  News18 Uttar Pradesh . Twitter user  @PatelSahabGJ  pointed that Adityanath can be heard using abusive language at 2:10 minutes in a  broadcast by First News Rajasthan  as well. Pro-BJP Twitter handles also came to Adityanath’s rescue including  @SocialTamasha  and  @BefittingFacts . The former shared a comparison video in an attempt to prove that the viral clip has been edited because, apart from the last three seconds, it is the same as the second bite tweeted by ANI. However, there are dissimilarities in both videos (highlighted in bold). The UP CM can be heard saying in the redacted clip, “I thank the honourable prime minister,  central health ministry from my heart  for providing COVID vaccine for free. I want to thank the country’s scientists. What are you doing, f******.” The reference to the health ministry was also tweeted by ANI. I thank PM & Union Health Ministry for making vaccine available free of cost. I also thank scientists of the country. The vaccine is completely safe. We all should take it when our turn comes: UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath  pic.twitter.com/jwhSfwsuIq — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP)  April 5, 2021 In the video reshot by the news agency, the CM does not mention the central health ministry. “I thank the honourable prime minister for providing COVID vaccine for free to the  country’s citizens . I thank  all  the scientists  who launched two vaccines on time in India …” he said. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath indeed used an abusive word in the presence of ANI crew. The claim that the video is edited is false. ANI, which is at the centre of the controversy, has chosen to not respond. Donate to Alt News! Independent journalism that speaks truth to power and is free of corporate and political control is possible only when people contribute towards the same. Please consider donating in support of this endeavour to fight misinformation and disinformation. Donate Now To make an instant donation, click on the "Donate Now" button above. For information regarding donation via Bank Transfer/Cheque/DD, click  here .