Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) West Bengal tweeted a video of Trinamool Congress (TMC) Krishnanagar North assembly constituency candidate actor Koushani Mukherjee claiming that she threatened voters. In the video, she can be heard saying in Bengali, “Come here. Who are you? BJP? Everyone has mothers and sisters at home, think before you vote.” (এদিকে আয়। তোরা কারা? বিজেপি? ঘরের সবার মা-বোন আছে ভোট টা ভেবে ডিবি।) “Everyone’s got mothers & sisters at home, think before you vote” – Kaushani Mukherjee, TMC candidate from Krishnanagar North. This is how she threatened the women of Bengal, this is Pishi’s culture. The women of Bengal are definitely not safe under Pishi’s rule.  pic.twitter.com/sdvPrbkUND — BJP Bengal (@BJP4Bengal)  April 2, 2021 Mukherjee is fighting the elections against BJP veteran Mukul Roy. A Facebook page dedicated to Roy shared the clip on April 2. Vice president of BJP Bengal  Ritesh Tiwari  posted the video on Twitter. “সবার ঘরে মা-বোন আছে, ভোট টা ভেবে দিবি” – কৃষ্ণনগর উত্তরের তৃণমূল প্রার্থী কৌশানী মুখার্জীর হুমকি। “সবার ঘরে মা-বোন আছে, ভোট টা ভেবে দিবি” – কৃষ্ণনগর উত্তরের তৃণমূল প্রার্থী কৌশানী মুখার্জীর হুমকি। একজন মহিলা হয়ে বাংলার মা-বোনেদের উপর এই ধরণের হুমকি! পিসির দলের এটাই সংস্কৃতি। পিসির রাজত্বে বাংলার মা-বোনেরা অসুরক্ষিত! Posted by  Mukul Roy  on Friday, 2 April 2021 Republic TV said in a broadcast, “And we have breaking news coming in from poll-bound West Bengal where TMC candidate from Krishnanagar north issued open threats to BJP supporters. In the video, Koushani Mukherjee can be heard saying those who have mothers and sisters at home must think before they cast their vote.” Hindi outlet  Zee Salam  published a report on BJP’s allegations. Journalist  Abhijit Majumdar  wrote that Mukherjee “warned voters”. Calcutta university’s former vice-chancellor, Ashutosh Mujherhee’s great-grandson,  Chayan Chatterjee , shared the video too. News18 Bangla played the video during a broadcast and stated that Mukherjee’s statement has led to a controversy. OpIndia  published a report based on News18’s report. Another propaganda website Kreately, promoted by BJP leader Kapil Mishra, claimed that Mukherjee threatened the women of Bengal. Remember this – Let us not make Bengal another Bangladesh “Everyone’s got mothers & sisters at home, think before you vote” – Kaushani Mukherjee, TMC candidate from Krishnanagar North. This is how she threatened the women of Bengal  pic.twitter.com/3COUY07HQs — Kreately.in (@KreatelyMedia)  April 2, 2021 Clipped video BJP shared a clipped video of TMC candidate Koushani Mukherjee. The actor herself shared a longer video where she can be heard saying, “Come here. Who are you? BJP? Everyone has mothers and sisters at home, think before you vote.  Think about the safety of your mothers and sisters. If didi (Mamata Banerjee) is not there, mothers and sisters will not be safe in Bengal .” (এদিকে আয়। তোরা কারা? বিজেপি? ঘরের সবার মা-বোন আছে ভোট টা ভেবে ডিবি। মা-বোনের সুরক্ষার কথা ভেবে দিবেন। দিদি না থাকলে মা-বোন শুরখো না বাংলায়।) The part where she refers to women’s safety was cropped out of the video. গতকাল আমার একটি ভিডিও প্রচন্ড ভাবে সোশ্যাল মিডিয়ায় প্রচার করেন বিরোধী দলের কিছু বন্ধুরা, আমি বলেছিলাম ভোটটা দেখে দেবেন… Posted by  Koushani Mukherjee  on  Saturday, 3 April 2021 Mukherjee had also uploaded a Facebook Live clarifying the misinformation. “What I actually said was that cast your votes thinking about the safety of women. Women are unsafe in UP. We saw what happened in Hathras. If BJP comes to power in Bengal, women won’t be safe. So think before you vote, and don’t fall into BJP’s trap,” she said.   Posted by  Koushani Mukherjee – AITC  on Friday, 2 April 2021 BJP Bengal and several pro-BJP propaganda handles amplified a clipped video of TMC’s Krishnanagar North candidate Koushani Mukherjee to falsely suggest she threatened voters. [Update: Republic TV took down its broadcast from YouTube after this fact-check was published. The link has been replaced with a downloaded video.] Donate to Alt News! Independent journalism that speaks truth to power and is free of corporate and political control is possible only when people contribute towards the same. Please consider donating in support of this endeavour to fight misinformation and disinformation. Donate Now To make an instant donation, click on the "Donate Now" button above. For information regarding donation via Bank Transfer/Cheque/DD, click  here .