The change in leadership at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also changed its stance on the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking. The civic body has decided to give ₹100 crore to the BEST every month until their budgets are merged. However, activists and transport experts are sceptical. The BEST Undertaking’s power division owes Tata Power around ₹500 crore. Tata Power has recently written to the BEST asking it to clear the dues. In this backdrop, the group leaders’ meeting at the BMC on Thursday only had the BEST on its agenda. While the corporators opposed any grant to the power wing, a decision was taken to give ₹100 crore to the transport division every month. “This decision was taken to help the BEST improve its finances. However, the funds will be given with certain conditions. They will have to undertake improvements,” Mumbai Mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar told the media after the meeting. Leader of opposition and BEST committee member Ravi Raja welcomed the move. “The discussion was to give ₹50 crore at first, but we brought it to ₹100 crore. I suggested that the PricewaterhouseCoopers recommendations, including commercialisation of depots, be implemented and the commissioner agreed to this,” Mr. Raja said. According to Mr. Raja, around ₹2,000 crore is needed to pull the BEST out of deficit. BMC Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi will hold meetings with the BEST administration to work out the logistics of the decision. Once in place, the BMC may start giving the grant to the BEST as early as June. A proposal will have to be tabled before the standing committee before implementation. The move will be implemented for six to eight months during which the corporation will monitor the impact. The BMC has once again laid emphasis on wet-leasing of buses. The ₹100 crore is to offset the operating loss that the transport wing of the BEST bears every month. BEST officials said the transport wing requires around ₹200 crore a month for operation, while they recover only ₹100 crore in revenue. The officials also said the wet leasing of buses was agreed as a condition for the grant. Eventually, the two budgets will be merged. “But the merger can happen only after the BEST comes out of the deficit. Otherwise, the deficit will be passed onto the BMC,” Mr. Raja said. R.J. Singh, deputy general manager, BEST, said there will be further discussions on the disbursal of the grant and both agencies will work together to create a comprehensive plan for the coming months. Shashank Rao, general secretary, BEST Workers’ Union, said he will wait for the entire plan to be made public before commenting on it. Mr. Rao spearheaded a historic nine-day strike of BEST workers in January. Among the key demands of the strike was the merger of the BEST and BMC budgets. Hussain Indorewala of Aamchi Mumbai Aamchi BEST, however, is sceptical. “The plan is not very different from what had been proposed by former municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta. The key difference between the two is the merger of the budgets, which had already been passed by the BMC standing committee,” he said. BJP corporator and member of the BEST committee, Sunil Ganacharya, said the announcement is a welcome step. “We have been demanding that the BMC fund the transport wing as it is a public service. The grant will help the BEST disburse salaries on time to its workers. However, I don’t agree on the condition to wet-lease buses, especially when the matter is in court,” he said.