The penultimate day of public campaigning in the Kundagol byelection saw more leaders from both the Congress-Janata Dal(S) and the BJP touring the constituency holding road shows, street meetings and conventions on Thursday. With only a couple of days left, mudslinging and trading of charges against each other by the leaders of both the parties too escalated with a few stooping to low-level comments and throwing challenges to their opponents. The Congress campaign on Thursday was led by the former Union Minister K.H. Muniayappa, the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao, the former Minister H.K. Patil and H.C. Mahadevappa, Ministers U.T. Khader, Zameer Ahmed, R.V. Deshpande, campaign in-charge D.K. Shivakumar, his brother and MP D.K. Suresh and several others. On the other hand, the former Chief Minister and BJP State president B.S. Yeddyurappa, the former Ministers B. Sriramulu, Govind Karjol, C.T. Ravi, Basavaraj Bommai, Shobha Karandlaje, MP Pralhad Joshi and BJP leader and film actor Shruthi canvassed for the campaign for party candidate. In between, speaking to presspersons, Mr. Yeddyurappa ruled out any chance of aligning with the Janata Dal(S) in the eventuality of the Congress withdrawing support to the Janata Dal(S), while Mr. Muniyappa allayed fears of the collapse of the coalition government and said that H.D. Kumaraswamy would be the Chief Minister for the complete term of the coalition arrangement. Meanwhile, allegations, counter-allegations, political loose talk continued during the campaign with Ms. Karandlaje, Mr. Ahmed, Mr. Sriramulu and Mr. Dinesh Gundu Rao becoming part of it. These leaders also referred to Mr. Siddaramaiah’s tweet on H.D. Revanna also being eligible to become the Chief Minister. Amid campaigning, the top leaders of both the parties took time to review the situation and to chalk out a further action plan as both the parties consider the bypolls crucial for the future of the coalition government in the State.