“Terror attacks in Japan: 0. Terror attacks in Poland: 0, What do these countries have in common? Permanent ban on Muslim migrants.” These words, printed in white font over a plain orange background, were shared at least 54,000 times since their publication in a on May 9, 2019. Although both Japan and Poland are known for the homogeneity of their populations, thousands of Muslims live in both countries and terror attacks have been recorded in the past. Japan does not have a Muslim ban. from the Immigration Bureau of Japan outlines the requirements to permanent residency in Japan, without mentioning any restrictions based on religion. Nothing in Japan’s suggests that Muslims cannot become Japanese citizens. A search of both documents for the words “religion” and “Islam” shows no results. Some 100,000 foreign Muslims and 10,000 Japanese Muslims lived in Japan in 2011, according to by Hirofumi Tanada, professor at the Human Sciences Faculty of Waseda University in Tokyo. from the Japanese includes data on all foreign residents in Japan by country of origin, including Muslim-majority countries such as Indonesia. Muslims practice their religion throughout Japan. According to by professor Tanada, there are more than 90 mosques throughout Japan. , Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe hosted an Iftar, the fast-breaking meal during the holy month of Ramadan, in his own office. As a member of the European Union, Poland has joined the , a group of 26 European countries that have abolished borders and visa restrictions. Citizens can move freely in the area’s 26 countries, including Poland, regardless of their religion. As a precondition to its membership in the EU, Poland must also comply with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. of the Charter prohibits discrimination based on a person’s religion within the EU. Jakub Dudziak, spokesperson for the Polish Office for Foreigners, told AFP that “the conditions that must be met by foreigners to obtain a residence permit (...) depend on the specific purpose of their stay. Issues of nationality or religion do not determine the delivery of this type of document.” details the requirements to obtain permanent residence in Poland, and does not make any mention of Islam. by the Polish Office for Foreigners includes data on all foreign residents in Poland by country of origin, including Muslim-majority countries such as Turkey. RafalKostrzynski, spokesperson for the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees in Poland, called the claim that Muslims migrants are banned from Poland “simply fake news.” Kostrzynski added that of the nationals accepted as refugees in Poland in 2018, a significant portion came from Chechnya, a republic of the Russian Federation where Islam is the dominant religion. To quantify terror attacks in Poland and Japan, AFP Fact Check used numbers provided by the (GTD), a verified open-source database that provides information on terrorist events of all sorts around the world. The GTD was developed by the University of Maryland’s National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, and terrorism as “the threatened or actual use of force and violence by a non-state actor to attain a political, economic, religious, or social goal through fear, coercion, or intimidation.” The GTD reports attacks in Japan from 1970 to 2017. , 13 people died of exposure to the toxic sarin gas, which was released in the Tokyo subway by the Aum Supreme Truth doomsday cult, now called Aleph. is an AFP report from July 2018 when the last members of the cult were executed for their role in the attack. According to the GTD, there were in Poland from 1970 to 2017. In January 2019, Gdansk mayor Pawel Adamowicz was killed by stabbing while giving a speech at a charity event. is an AFP report on the attack.