People are eagerly waiting for post-poll surveys to be conducted by different media houses soon after the last phase of elections gets over on May 19. Social media, as usual, is buzzing with apprehension and sometimes, misinformation, in this aspect too. Many on Twitter and Facebook have put out some data along with a video, which they claimed as "exit poll data", attributing them to "India Today". According to India Today's Anti Fake News War Room (AFWA), these are completely false claims. India Today has not released any exit poll data so far. Data being shown on the viral video is dummy data put out by the media house as a promo. The Election Commission has specifically ordered that no media house can air any exit poll till the end of the last phase of elections, which is to be held on May 19, 2019 (Sunday). On May 16, Twitter user tweeted, "According to @IndiaToday NDA is winning only 177 seats!" He used a screen grab of India Today news channel and put out figures attributing them as "India Today survey for 2019 Lok Sabha Polls". The data shows NDA getting 177 seats, UPA 141 and others 224 seats. Senior TV journalist and news anchor of India Today Rajdeep Sardesai immediately shot down this post, tweeting, "Fake news!! No such poll has been done.. so stop spreading fake news.." Fake news!! No such poll has been done.. so stop spreading fake news.. Many people, however, still kept on doubting. Replying to Sardesai's tweet, Twitter user "James Wilson" posted a video of Rahul Kanwal, India Today News Director and prime time news anchor, and asked "Fine Rajdeep. But please tell us what is this esteemed colleague of yours is doing?" (sic) Many other also remained skeptical and posted the same video of Rahul Kanwal. In this viral video, Kanwal is showing a computer screen, which he described as "behind the screen preparation for India Today exit poll" While he shows newsroom activities, a graphic pops us on the screen with some data against political parties, which people mistook as real exit poll figures. Fine Rajdeep. Bit please tell us what is this your esteemed colleague is doing? Kanwal later clarified the confusion, calling it "dummy data" used for "tech dry runs". He tweeted, "If there's so much interest in our dummy data and tech dry runs, I wonder what will happen when the real @IndiaToday @AxisMyIndia #AajtakAxisExitPoll comes out. The only way to know actual numbers is to watch @IndiaToday @aajtak 4pm onwards on May 19. Please end idle speculation." If there’s so much interest in our dummy data and tech dry runs, I wonder what will happen when the real comes out. The only way to know actual numbers is to watch 4pm onwards on May 19. Please end idle speculation. India Today Group also clarified the same thing by putting out a tweet along with the same promo video, anchored by Kanwal. It urges people not to believe in the dummy data and rather watch the real show on May 19. We understand your excitement about this clip! Sorry to disappoint you. We too are waiting anxiously for the data.This is visibly a promo with dummy data, played on For the REAL thing,tune in to India Today & AajTak on May 19, 4pm onwards India Today has neither released any exit poll data, nor has it been leaked on social media. The media group will be showing its exit poll based on the survey of more than 7 lakh voters on May 19, on both India Today and AajTak news channels. The number of crows determines the intensity of the lie.