French economist Thomas Piketty has evinced interest in studying the Kerala model of economic development and submitting a report for strengthening the State’s economy. Mr. Piketty expressed his willingness to take up the task to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan when he met him in Paris on Thursday. Mr. Piketty, who has made remarkable contributions to the bridging of economic inequalities through his studies, held discussions with Mr. Vijayan for more than an hour, the Chief Minister’s office said. Lucas Chancel of the Paris School of Economics who had conducted significant research on the economic inequalities in India and sustainable development also attended the talks. Mr. Piketty said that he was aware of the remarkable progress and investments made by the State in land reforms, health, education and such other sectors. Mr. Vijayan said he had adopted an inclusive development strategy and the government was focussing on attaining high standards in health and public education. More students had now shifted to government schools in the wake of the changes. The pension scheme for those in the unorganised sector was a model for the country in social welfare. Kerala had adopted a development alternative that gave due importance to social welfare, he said. Economic inequality The government was concerned about the growing economic inequality and hence was focussing on ensuring the social and economic rights of the marginalised sections, he said, and pointed out the steps taken for bringing transgenders into the social mainstream. Mr. Piketty called for a progressive tax structure to end economic inequality. More tax should be levied from the rich, but world over, pressure groups were trying to reduce the tax rates of the rich. The structure of land tax, asset tax, property tax and such others should be changed, he said. ‘Form a database’ Statistics was imperative for conducting studies on inequality, but it was not available. More social investments were needed to end inequality. He urged the government to form a database for conducting the study. Mr. Vijayan thanked Mr. Piketty for accepting the government invitation for conducting the study. Chief Secretary Tom Jose and Industries Principal Secretary K. Ellangovan were also present.