CHENNAI: Leading car dealership Sundaram hit the milestone of selling 1 lakh Honda cars in , Andhra Pradesh & Telangana states. While the first car was sold in January 1998, the initial 40,000 cars were sold in 14 years 4 months and the balance 60,000 (cumulative 1 lakh) was sold in just 6 years 11 months.  Sundaram Motors is currently involved in sales and service of leading car brands Honda, Mercedes Benz, Volkswagen and After Market Parts distribution. In the post liberalized era, Sundaram Motors started its journey as dealers for Honda cars – Sundaram Honda - in Chennai in 1998. Being one of the first dealers to operate in India, Sundaram Honda now has 12 customer touchpoints (showrooms), 337 bays and over 50,000 sq.ft of workshop area. Sale of Honda cars commenced at Chennai, and since then, the company has extended its presence to Coimbatore, , Erode, Salem, Tirupur, Karur, (second outlet in Chennai) in Tamil Nadu; Secunderabad,Shaikpet ,Vijayawadaand Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh& Telangana states. Sundaram Motors is also expanding footprint to the tier 3 & 4 cities. By the end of 2019-20 Sundaram Motors will have 2 additional touchpoints (showrooms), one in Eluru in Andhra Pradesh and another in Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu. And in 2020-21 the company will also have 3 more touchpoints (showrooms) in tier 3 & 4 cities.  Sundaram Motors has one showroom for Volkswagen in Chennai and 9 showrooms for Mercedes Benz in Tamilnadu and . After Market Parts distribution caters to over 15000 dealers with 84 branches across Pan India. Sundaram Motors turnover for the year ending 2019 is Rs. 1800 crores with 3200 employees, of which Rs. 840 crores and 1400 employees are from Sundaram Honda. Mr.Sharath Vijayaraghavan, Executive Director, Sundaram Motors said, “Reaching the 1 lakh milestone and being the largest retailer of Honda cars in India for 5 years in a row, is a proud moment for all of us atSundaram Motors.We thank our customers for their support over the years and our employees for their commitment to continue to invest in the trust of our customers. Honda city model has been the largest contributor to the company's sales followed by compact family sedan Amaze and premium hatch back Honda Jazz.We have been able to develop the business due to our shared values of transparency, highest standards of integrity, respect for people, disciplined approach to business apart from Honda’s advanced design and technology, reliability, durability,fuel-efficiency and cost of ownershipthat characterize the Honda DNA.”